README.md, before:

# Cattle - Farm Management System

A comprehensive livestock farm management application built with React, TypeScript, and Firebase. Designed to help farmers efficiently track animals, manage employees, schedule tasks, and maintain detailed health and production records.

## Features

### 🐄 Animal Management
- Individual animal profiles with detailed records
- Health tracking and medical history
- Production record monitoring
- Related animals and breeding information
- Custom species configuration

### 👥 Employee Management
- Role-based access control (Owner, Admin, Employee)
- Staff management and permissions
- Multi-user collaboration

### 📋 Task Management
- Farm task scheduling and tracking
- Assignment and progress monitoring
- Priority and deadline management

### 🌍 Multi-language Support
- English and Spanish localization
- Automatic language detection
- Easy language switching

### 🎤 Voice Recording
- Voice notes for field data entry
- Mobile-friendly audio capture
- Hands-free operation support

### 📱 Progressive Web App (PWA)
- Fully responsive design optimized for mobile field use
- Offline-capable with service worker support
- Installable on mobile devices and desktop
- Touch-friendly interfaces with drag-and-drop functionality

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS 4 + DaisyUI + UnoCSS (for icons)
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Backend**: Firebase (Authentication + Firestore + Storage)
- **PWA**: Vite PWA Plugin with Workbox for offline support
- **Animations**: GSAP with SplitText
- **Testing**: Vitest + Testing Library (275 tests, 100% passing)
- **Code Quality**: Biome (ESLint + Prettier replacement)
- **Internationalization**: i18next + react-i18next
- **Package Management**: PNPM with workspace configuration

## Quality Metrics

- ✅ **Tests**: 275/275 passing (100% success rate)
- ✅ **Linting**: 0 errors, clean codebase with Biome
- ✅ **Build**: No warnings or errors
- ✅ **TypeScript**: Strict mode, fully typed
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized with intelligent code splitting
- ✅ **PWA**: Lighthouse score optimized for mobile
- ✅ **Accessibility**: WCAG compliant components

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- PNPM (recommended package manager)
- Firebase project with Authentication, Firestore, and Storage enabled

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd cattle
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pnpm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```
Edit `.env.local` with your Firebase configuration.

4. Start the development server:
```bash
pnpm dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:5173`

## Development Commands

### Development
```bash
pnpm dev          # Start dev server (local-develop mode)
pnpm prod         # Start dev server (production mode)
```

### Building
```bash
pnpm build:production  # Build for production
pnpm build:develop     # Build for development
pnpm preview          # Preview built app
```

### Testing
```bash
pnpm test         # Run tests with Vitest (watch mode)
pnpm test --run   # Run all tests once
```

**Current Status**: ✅ 275/275 tests passing (100% success rate)

### Code Quality
```bash
pnpm lint         # Lint and auto-fix with Biome
pnpm format       # Format code with Biome
pnpm lint:check   # Check linting without fixing
pnpm format:check # Check formatting without fixing
```

### Internationalization
```bash
pnpm i18n:scan    # Scan for translation keys
pnpm i18n:format  # Format translation files
pnpm i18n         # Run both scan and format
```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/                    # Source code
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI components
│   ├── pages/             # Route-level page components
│   ├── hooks/             # Custom React hooks
│   ├── services/          # API and external service integrations
│   ├── store/             # Zustand state management
│   ├── utils/             # Utility functions and helpers
│   ├── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── config/            # Configuration files
│   └── tests/             # Test setup and utilities
├── public/                # Static assets (PWA icons, locales)
├── dist/                  # Production build output
├── dev-dist/              # Development PWA files (auto-generated)
├── .kiro/                 # Kiro configuration and steering
└── pnpm-workspace.yaml    # PNPM workspace configuration
```

## Firebase Setup

1. Create a Firebase project at [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Enable Authentication with Email/Password provider
3. Create a Firestore database
4. Enable Storage for file uploads
5. Add your Firebase config to `.env.local`:

```env
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_project.firebaseapp.com
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_project.appspot.com
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
```

## Deployment

The project is configured for Firebase Hosting with separate environments:

```bash
# Build and deploy to development
pnpm build:develop
firebase deploy --only hosting:develop

# Build and deploy to production  
pnpm build:production
firebase deploy --only hosting:production
```

## Contributing

1. Follow the established code style (tabs, single quotes, 100-char lines)
2. Use the `@/` import alias for all internal imports
3. Add translations for new text content in both English and Spanish
4. Write comprehensive tests for new features (maintain 100% coverage)
5. Ensure responsive design works on mobile devices
6. Run pre-commit checks:
   ```bash
   pnpm lint:check   # Verify linting
   pnpm format:check # Verify formatting
   pnpm test --run   # Run all tests
   pnpm build:develop # Verify build works
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Pre-commit Checklist
- [ ] All tests passing (`pnpm test --run`)
- [ ] No linting errors (`pnpm lint:check`)
- [ ] Code properly formatted (`pnpm format:check`)
- [ ] Build successful (`pnpm build:develop`)
- [ ] New features have comprehensive tests
- [ ] Translations added for new text (English + Spanish)
- [ ] Responsive design tested on mobile devices
- [ ] PWA functionality works offline

## Code Style

- **Indentation**: Tabs (not spaces)
- **Quotes**: Single quotes for strings
- **Line Length**: 100 characters maximum
- **Import Order**: Automatically organized by Biome in specific groups
- **Components**: PascalCase with descriptive names
- **Files**: Use `.page.tsx` suffix for page components
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with Tailwind breakpoints
- **Testing**: Comprehensive coverage with Vitest and Testing Library

## License

**All Rights Reserved** - This project is publicly visible for portfolio and demonstration purposes only.

### Usage Terms:
- ✅ **Viewing and learning** from the code is permitted
- ✅ **Forking for personal study** is allowed
- ❌ **Commercial use** requires explicit written permission
- ❌ **Redistribution** without attribution is prohibited
- ❌ **Copying substantial portions** without permission is not allowed

### Attribution Required:
If you use any part of this code, you must:
- Credit the original author
- Link back to this repository
- Clearly state what portions were derived from this work

**Contact**: For commercial licensing or usage permissions, please reach out through GitHub issues or repository contact information.

© 2025 - All rights reserved. This software is the intellectual property of the repository owner.

Commit message:

Enhance UI with GSAP animations and micro-interactions
Added GSAP-powered entrance, counter, and hover animations to dashboard cards, health overview, production chart, tasks, modal, navbar, toast manager, and search components for smoother transitions and improved user experience. Refactored AnimalCard to accept a single animal object prop. Updated Select and TextField types to omit native 'size' prop for better type safety. Improved modal with touch gesture support for mobile. Removed obsolete test files and updated README to reflect UI enhancements.

README.md, after:

# Cattle - Farm Management System

A comprehensive livestock farm management application built with React, TypeScript, and Firebase. Designed to help farmers efficiently track animals, manage employees, schedule tasks, and maintain detailed health and production records.

## Features

### 🐄 Animal Management
- Individual animal profiles with detailed records
- Health tracking and medical history
- Production record monitoring
- Related animals and breeding information
- Custom species configuration

### 👥 Employee Management
- Role-based access control (Owner, Admin, Employee)
- Staff management and permissions
- Multi-user collaboration

### 📋 Task Management
- Farm task scheduling and tracking
- Assignment and progress monitoring
- Priority and deadline management

### 🌍 Multi-language Support
- English and Spanish localization
- Automatic language detection
- Easy language switching

### 🎤 Voice Recording
- Voice notes for field data entry
- Mobile-friendly audio capture
- Hands-free operation support

### 📱 Progressive Web App (PWA)
- Fully responsive design optimized for mobile field use
- Offline-capable with service worker support
- Installable on mobile devices and desktop
- Touch-friendly interfaces with drag-and-drop functionality
- Enhanced UI with GSAP animations and smooth transitions

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS 4 + DaisyUI + UnoCSS (for icons)
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Backend**: Firebase (Authentication + Firestore + Storage)
- **PWA**: Vite PWA Plugin with Workbox for offline support
- **Animations**: GSAP with advanced micro-interactions and UI enhancements
- **Testing**: Vitest + Testing Library (275 tests, 100% passing)
- **Code Quality**: Biome (ESLint + Prettier replacement)
- **Internationalization**: i18next + react-i18next
- **Package Management**: PNPM with workspace configuration

## Quality Metrics

- ✅ **Tests**: 275/275 passing (100% success rate)
- ✅ **Linting**: 0 errors, clean codebase with Biome
- ✅ **Build**: No warnings or errors
- ✅ **TypeScript**: Strict mode, fully typed
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized with intelligent code splitting
- ✅ **PWA**: Lighthouse score optimized for mobile
- ✅ **Accessibility**: WCAG compliant components
- ✅ **UI/UX**: Enhanced with GSAP animations and improved component reliability

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- PNPM (recommended package manager)
- Firebase project with Authentication, Firestore, and Storage enabled

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd cattle
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pnpm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```
Edit `.env.local` with your Firebase configuration.

4. Start the development server:
```bash
pnpm dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:5173`

## Development Commands

### Development
```bash
pnpm dev          # Start dev server (local-develop mode)
pnpm prod         # Start dev server (production mode)
```

### Building
```bash
pnpm build:production  # Build for production
pnpm build:develop     # Build for development
pnpm preview          # Preview built app
```

### Testing
```bash
pnpm test         # Run tests with Vitest (watch mode)
pnpm test --run   # Run all tests once
```

**Current Status**: ✅ 275/275 tests passing (100% success rate)

### Code Quality
```bash
pnpm lint         # Lint and auto-fix with Biome
pnpm format       # Format code with Biome
pnpm lint:check   # Check linting without fixing
pnpm format:check # Check formatting without fixing
```

### Internationalization
```bash
pnpm i18n:scan    # Scan for translation keys
pnpm i18n:format  # Format translation files
pnpm i18n         # Run both scan and format
```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/                    # Source code
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI components
│   ├── pages/             # Route-level page components
│   ├── hooks/             # Custom React hooks
│   ├── services/          # API and external service integrations
│   ├── store/             # Zustand state management
│   ├── utils/             # Utility functions and helpers
│   ├── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── config/            # Configuration files
│   └── tests/             # Test setup and utilities
├── public/                # Static assets (PWA icons, locales)
├── dist/                  # Production build output
├── dev-dist/              # Development PWA files (auto-generated)
├── .kiro/                 # Kiro configuration and steering
└── pnpm-workspace.yaml    # PNPM workspace configuration
```

## Firebase Setup

1. Create a Firebase project at [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Enable Authentication with Email/Password provider
3. Create a Firestore database
4. Enable Storage for file uploads
5. Add your Firebase config to `.env.local`:

```env
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_project.firebaseapp.com
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_project.appspot.com
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
```

## Deployment

The project is configured for Firebase Hosting with separate environments:

```bash
# Build and deploy to development
pnpm build:develop
firebase deploy --only hosting:develop

# Build and deploy to production  
pnpm build:production
firebase deploy --only hosting:production
```

## Contributing

1. Follow the established code style (tabs, single quotes, 100-char lines)
2. Use the `@/` import alias for all internal imports
3. Add translations for new text content in both English and Spanish
4. Write comprehensive tests for new features (maintain 100% coverage)
5. Ensure responsive design works on mobile devices
6. Run pre-commit checks:
   ```bash
   pnpm lint:check   # Verify linting
   pnpm format:check # Verify formatting
   pnpm test --run   # Run all tests
   pnpm build:develop # Verify build works
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Pre-commit Checklist
- [ ] All tests passing (`pnpm test --run`)
- [ ] No linting errors (`pnpm lint:check`)
- [ ] Code properly formatted (`pnpm format:check`)
- [ ] Build successful (`pnpm build:develop`)
- [ ] New features have comprehensive tests
- [ ] Translations added for new text (English + Spanish)
- [ ] Responsive design tested on mobile devices
- [ ] PWA functionality works offline

## Code Style

- **Indentation**: Tabs (not spaces)
- **Quotes**: Single quotes for strings
- **Line Length**: 100 characters maximum
- **Import Order**: Automatically organized by Biome in specific groups
- **Components**: PascalCase with descriptive names
- **Files**: Use `.page.tsx` suffix for page components
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with Tailwind breakpoints
- **Testing**: Comprehensive coverage with Vitest and Testing Library

## License

**All Rights Reserved** - This project is publicly visible for portfolio and demonstration purposes only.

### Usage Terms:
- ✅ **Viewing and learning** from the code is permitted
- ✅ **Forking for personal study** is allowed
- ❌ **Commercial use** requires explicit written permission
- ❌ **Redistribution** without attribution is prohibited
- ❌ **Copying substantial portions** without permission is not allowed

### Attribution Required:
If you use any part of this code, you must:
- Credit the original author
- Link back to this repository
- Clearly state what portions were derived from this work

**Contact**: For commercial licensing or usage permissions, please reach out through GitHub issues or repository contact information.

© 2025 - All rights reserved. This software is the intellectual property of the repository owner.
